Chapter number nine, and I think Juliana this morning
has a little bit of mixed emotions.
Today marks nine year, excuse me,
11 years of ministry here for us
at Fellowship Baptist Church,
and it's also her last Sunday at Fellowship Baptist Church.
Of course, we trust that she'll be back
and visit over the years,
but she's getting married next week,
and so on Saturday, actually this week,
and it's amazing to see what God has done in 11 years.
We're so thankful for the privilege
of being able to serve in this capacity,
but she was thinking about that this week
of how it's the anniversary Sunday
and also her last Sunday,
and we trust that God will use her
as she moves down North Carolina and serves the Lord there.
Matthew chapter number nine,
looking at verses nine through 13 this morning,
beginning in verse number nine,
the Bible says, and as Jesus passed forth from thence,
he saw a man named Matthew,
sitting at the receipt of custom,
and he saith unto him, follow me.
And he rose and followed him.
It came to pass, as Jesus sat at me in the house,
behold, many publicans and sinners came
and sat down with him and his disciples,
and when the Pharisees saw it,
they said unto his disciples,
why eateth your master with publicans and sinners?
By the way, I'm thankful that Jesus loves sinners, amen?
And it says in verse number 12,
but when Jesus heard that,
notice the disciples didn't even have chance
to respond, Jesus heard the question and he responded.
It says that he said unto them,
they that behold need not a physician,
but they that are sick.
The sickness, of course, is that of sin.
It's a universal condition of all mankind,
apart from the Lord Jesus Christ.
He is the perfect sinless one,
but of course, every other human being,
sinful by nature in need of the Savior.
Verse 13, but go ye and learn what that meaneth.
I will have mercy and not sacrifice,
for I am not come to call the righteous,
but sinners to repentance.
Notice the phrase at the end of verse number nine,
and he arose and followed him.
I'm gonna preach a message this morning
that I've simply entitled from that thought,
he arose and followed him.
Matthew chapter nine begins,
the first eight verses is Matthew's record
of the healing of the man that was born of four.
And we're familiar with the passage of scripture.
In fact, in Sunday school for a number of months now,
we've been studying the miracles of the Lord Jesus Christ.
And it was many months ago
that we studied this particular miracle.
And it's really one of my top five, probably.
I love the passages of scripture that deal with it
and the cooperation of the men,
the determination of the men
to bring this man to the Savior.
They knew that he was sick of the palsy.
He needed to see Jesus.
But we find that when Jesus was teaching the house,
there were so many people and they couldn't get there.
And they were determined and they went up on the rooftop
and they let the man down and God healed him.
And what a blessing.
Not only did the Lord Jesus Christ heal the man,
but he said, thy sins are forgiven.
Now that caused a great stir
amongst the religious leaders that were there.
Many of those that were there,
were there for the purpose of finding fault with Jesus.
And we find that they heard that statement
and they were grieved in their heart, they were bothered.
And here's what they said, only God can forgive sins.
Amen, absolutely.
That is absolutely correct.
And it was through the Lord Jesus Christ
saying to that man, thy sins are forgiven,
that he was proving and showing evidence that he is God.
We find that he says to those religious leaders,
those skeptics, he says, so that you would know
that I have power to forgive sins.
I say unto thee, take up thy bed
and walk, rise and walk.
And man, what a great miracle.
And you think about the power of the Lord Jesus Christ.
We find that in Matthew chapter number eight,
it's amazing as you go through the eighth chapter of Matthew
and you find just miracle after miracle after miracle
and just the power of Christ on display.
And then we come to our text of scripture this morning.
And as we come to the text of scripture this morning,
we find that God gives us the record,
the details, if you will, of the call of Matthew.
And we find that the text of scripture
starts out really in a simple way.
It says, as Jesus passed forth from thence.
As Jesus passed forth from thence,
we've said it multiple times in the last couple of weeks
in our Sunday school class,
that Jesus always moves with purpose.
We find in our lives, we can rejoice
in knowing as we study the scriptures
and we see the purpose of the Lord in his word
that even in my life today and in your life today,
God is moving with purpose.
He does nothing by mistake.
He does nothing to just do it for the sake of doing it.
He has purpose and he has plan.
And we find that the Bible tells us
that as you read this passage
and then you begin to see Matthew,
I really think for Matthew, perhaps this day started
like any other day would start.
The Bible tells us that he was sitting
at the receipt of custom.
I mean, he did this probably regularly.
You think about your routine,
you think about your daily routine and what you do,
and we could say it this way, he went to work, right?
He was a tax collector.
By the way, he's hated because of being a tax collector.
And on top of being a tax collector, he was a Jew.
And that really was a problem
because they were really working for the Romans
and it was just a big problem, a big mess.
But this was his routine.
He's going to work as a tax collector.
He's sitting at the receipt of custom
and he's just really any typical day.
But this day that started out in typical fashion,
maybe a day that we would say that started
as an ordinary day comes with an unexpected visit
and it ends with an extraordinary meeting.
And I love the passage of scripture here in Matthew 9
as we think about the call of God
upon this man, Matthew, in his response.
This morning, I believe that as we study the word of God
that we've all been called to follow him
and we'll deal with that in the message this morning.
But I also believe that God is placing a special call
on the lives of individuals to follow him
in a similar type of capacity, not the same office.
We know that the office of apostle is no longer an office,
but God is still calling people.
The Bible tells us that Jesus,
as you think about the prayer request
of the Lord Jesus Christ at the end of this chapter,
he says to his disciples,
if you look there in 9 in verse number 37,
the harvest truly is plenteous,
but the laborers are few.
Pray ye therefore the Lord of the harvest
that he will send forth laborers into his harvest.
I believe that God's still calling laborers.
I believe that God's still sending forth laborers.
I believe that this morning
that we ought to be praying that God,
we ought to be praying just as he instructed us here
that he would send forth laborers into his harvest
because the harvest is plenteous, but the laborers are few.
I got an article this week that was sent to me
and it said that 42% of those that are in full-time ministry
are considering resigning today.
That is just frightening to me.
That is a huge number.
Now, they didn't call me.
I'm not part of the statistic, amen,
but I don't know how that is across the board,
but I just think about the call and we look at Matthew
and let's dig in.
I would say this, if you're taking notes this morning,
the simplicity of the call.
Notice the simplicity of the call.
Jesus passed by.
Matthew was simply fulfilling his duty.
It says that Jesus passed forth from thence
in verse number nine.
He saw a man named Matthew sitting at the receipt of custom
and he saith unto him, follow me.
Isn't that simple?
I mean, the simplicity of the call is there
and we find that Jesus simply said, follow me.
We think about the other accounts
in which God gives us in his word of calling the disciples
and calling the apostles.
I think about Andrew when he's there and Peter
and you see what's taking place.
Of course, Peter was a fisherman
and you think about Peter
and the circumstances surrounding his call
and Jesus says, follow me.
And then he says this, I will make you fishers of men.
And you think about the importance of the call
that Jesus placed and the simplicity of the call
and we find that here it's a simple, follow me.
Following the Lord Jesus Christ is critical.
We, of course, understand we've played the game
with children of follow the leader.
We've played a game of Simon says and what have you
and we've tried to teach them the importance of following.
You ever try to follow someone on the highway?
In these parts of the country, it can be challenging, right?
There's so much traffic, so many things going on
and we had a little caravan, if you will,
on Thursday as we traveled up to Sight and Sound
and I was kind of leading and I made the comment to Holly.
I said, this is terrible
because you got two cars behind you
and you got all this traffic
and you're trying to make sure
that they're able to see you and follow
but it's almost worse for the guy in the back
because he's trying to follow.
follow.
But we think about the simplicity of the call here, again, an ordinary day for Matthew.
I believe that he probably got up that morning and went through his normal routine, and he
just did the normal things that he would do, and he goes, and he's sitting at the receipt
of custom, and Jesus comes by.
And as he's sitting there just fulfilling his duty, doing that which he did on a number
of other days, Jesus says, follow me, follow me, wow, the simplicity of the call.
But when I think about the simplicity of the call, it must not overshadow the seriousness
of the call.
And if you're taking notes quickly after the simplicity of the call, I want you to see
the seriousness of the call.
As I think about the call of Jesus and the life of Matthew, and I think about the instruction
for us as the people of God to follow the Lord Jesus Christ, I would say that this call
is life-changing.
We see it being life-changing in the life of Matthew, we'll look at some of this here
in just a few moments, but I want you to think about who Jesus is.
We've already made note of the fact that Matthew 9 begins with the healing of the man that
was sick of the palsy, and Jesus tells him, thy sins are forgiven, proving that he is
God.
And I want you to understand this morning that as you think about the Lord Jesus Christ
and His earthly ministry, and you think about the seriousness of the call that God Almighty,
God in flesh, is saying to Matthew, follow me.
Man, that's a serious call.
To think that God Almighty would call any of us to follow Him.
I was corresponding with one of our missionaries over text yesterday, and they were rejoicing
in some opportunities that God has given them in recent days, and I had had correspondence
in recent days with them, and was praying with them about a couple of these meetings
and opportunities, and man, we're just rejoicing in what God has done and how God has answered
prayer.
And I sent a note, and I said, man, to God be the glory, I'm just rejoicing with you,
and they replied, and then my response was this, to think that God would use any of us.
What a privilege to be used of the Lord Jesus Christ.
You think about Matthew, again I've already made note that he's the tax collector.
He is not the popular guy in town.
These tax collectors, they were given authority from the Roman government, and they were given
responsibility to levy taxes, and the way in which they made their money was by levying
a higher tax than what they had to give the Romans, and they would just exploit people.
They were hated.
And he's sitting there at the receipt of custom, and Jesus says, follow me.
It's a simple call, but it's a serious call.
It's not something that should be taken lightly.
As a child of the Lord Jesus Christ, as a child of God, we ought to take seriously the
call that God has placed in each of our lives to follow Him, to follow Him.
See, as we think about the truth this morning of the seriousness of the call, I would say,
in a general sense, every single child of God has been called to follow Jesus.
In fact, we find that as you study the book of Acts, that they were first called Christians
and Antioch, and it was because of their behavior, because of what they did and how they followed
the Lord Jesus Christ.
And as I think about the call for every child of God to follow Jesus, I'm mindful of what
Jesus said in Mark chapter 8.
Turn over, if you will, and hold your place in Matthew.
We'll be back there, but turn over to Mark chapter number 8, if you will.
Mark chapter number 8, Jesus is speaking here, and what great truth He provides us with regard
to following Him.
And again, in a general sense, every child of God has been called to follow the Lord
Jesus Christ.
We find that He begins in Mark 8, verse number 34, when He had called the people unto Him,
with His disciples also, He said unto them.
Now understand, He's called the disciples, apostles, if you will, and we find the specific
call that He gives to the apostles, and we'll mention that in more detail in just a moment,
but He's speaking to the people.
He called the people unto Him, and then He says this, whosoever will come after me, let
him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me.
For whosoever will save his life shall lose it, but whosoever shall lose his life for
my sake and the gospel's, the same shall save it.
For what shall it profit a man, if he shall gain the whole world and lose his own soul?
What shall a man give in exchange for his soul?
Whosoever therefore shall be ashamed of me and of my words in this adulterous and sinful
generation, of him also shall the Son of Man be ashamed when He cometh in the glory
of His Father with the holy angels.
But I want you to focus on verse number 34 when Jesus says, whosoever will come after
me, notice what He says, let him deny himself, take up his cross, and follow me.
I believe, and we'll look at it as we end the message this morning, but there's great
insight given to us with regard to the importance of surrender when it comes to following the
Lord Jesus Christ.
If I don't first deny myself and take up my cross, it's going to be really challenging
to follow the Lord Jesus Christ.
And that's why He set forth the pattern that He set forth here in verse number 34, that
if you're going to come after me, if you're going to be a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ,
you understand that you first must deny yourself.
I believe it was Dio Mudi that made the statement that the biggest opposer that he had in his
life was the man that he shaved daily.
Self gets in the way a whole lot, doesn't it?
I mean, honestly.
Many times we could say it this way, we're our own worst enemy, right?
And here we find that He says, deny himself.
Here's how Paul said it, I am crucified with Christ.
Nevertheless, I live, yet not I, but Christ liveth in me.
In the life that I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith of the Son of God who
loved me and gave Himself for me.
And we think about the truth of denying ourselves, understanding that we're going to have that
position of self-denial.
Why?
Because we want to follow Jesus.
I then take up the cross and take up His cross and follow me.
Follow the Lord Jesus Christ.
Peter said it this way in 1 Peter 2, and he, of course, is writing to a group of people
that have been under intense persecution, Nero is ruling, and they've been scattered
abroad and all of these things that are taking place.
And Peter says to these individuals that are suffering and facing great difficulty, he
tells them in 1 Peter 2, in verse number 21, for even hereunto were ye called.
Because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example that ye should follow His steps.
In a very general sense, every child of God, if you've been born again, if you're here
this morning and you've trusted Christ as your Savior, the will of God is that we follow
Christ.
That we follow Him.
You know, sometimes as we follow Christ, He's going to lead us directly into a storm.
You say, no.
Hell yeah.
He's going to lead us into a situation that we might look at as being a mess.
But God wants to use you in that messy situation to bring glory to Himself, right?
As we follow Him, we find that we're following His leadership, and He will guide us and direct
us and He will use us for His honor and for His glory.
What a great song this morning.
God sees the storm from the other side.
Aren't you thankful for that this morning?
And you think about the disciples when Jesus said, let us get under the boat and pass to
the other side.
He knew there was going to be a storm.
He was developing His servants.
He was developing His disciples.
And this morning, we find that as we understand the seriousness of the call, that each of
us would have this impact on us that would really have a sobering effect, that Jesus
has called me to be a follower of Christ, to follow Him.
Now, as you go back to Matthew chapter number 9, we find that in a general sense, we've
all been called to follow Jesus, but we find that Matthew specifically, as we think about
the specific nature of the call that is mentioned here in Matthew 9, that He was called to be
an apostle.
We find that here in Matthew 9, He says, follow me.
And we find that in chapter number 10, in verse number 1 through 3, He outlines the
names of those that He called to be as apostles.
It says when He had called unto Him as 12 disciples, He gave them power against unclean
spirits to cast them out and to heal all manner of sickness and all manner of disease.
Now, the names of the 12 apostles are these, the first, Simon, who is called Peter, Andrew
is brother, James, the son of Zebedee, and John is brother, Philip and Bartholomew, Thomas
and then Nodus, and Matthew, the publican.
Matthew was called specifically as an apostle.
And we find that that was the specific call of God upon His life.
And as we begin to think about the general sense, the general call that each of us as
the people of God, we've been called to follow Jesus.
And so, are we following Jesus as we've been called to do so?
Are we studying His Word?
Are we in the Scriptures?
Have we denied ourselves, taken up our cross, and we're following Him?
And then in the very specific sense for Matthew this morning, he's been called to be an apostle.
The specific call that's been placed in his life, I could say clearly for all of us this
morning in a general sense that you've been called to follow Jesus, but you may not have
been called to go serve in a particular mission field as a missionary or maybe as a pastor
or whatever it might be, but God places that specific call.
I think about my own life, and I think about the fact that I got saved in 1997.
When I got saved, I became a child of God, and it was the will of God that I would follow
Jesus, that I'd follow Him.
When I worked in the corporate world for years as I was serving the Lord, I was seeking to
follow Jesus because that's God's will for His people.
Then God placed a specific call in my life to be a pastor.
And we know that God's not going to call everybody to be a pastor.
I remember speaking with someone many years ago and talking about this very nature and
the fact that God's not going to call everyone to be a pastor, then who's going to be in
the church, right?
But someone said this.
God's not going to call everyone to a full-time capacity, if we could use that terminology
this morning, but you know, as the people of God, we ought to wrestle with the idea
of what does God really have…am I willing?
Am I willing to follow Jesus not simply in that general sense as all of us as the people
of God, as His children, but specifically, if God were to call, are we going to answer
and respond?
See, when I read this morning, by way of introduction, the truth of Matthew 9 with regard to the
prayer request in verse 37 and 38, I don't believe this morning that God has stopped
calling people.
Do you?
I don't believe that God stopped calling missionaries.
I don't believe that God stopped calling pastors.
But yet you have mission fields that are in want of missionaries.
You have churches that have empty pulpits.
I remember while I was in Bible college going and preaching right after…actually, it was
right after Bible college, I remember going and preaching in some churches in some places
where they did not have a pastor.
There were times that we'd go into a church for a weekend, Holly and I, and we'd go into
a church and they were without a pastor for over two years.
Can you imagine?
Two years without a pastor?
We find that God tells us that He's given pastors.
We read it in Ephesians 4, we won't take time to turn there, but we find that He's calling.
I don't believe that some of the lack of laborers that we see is a result of God stopping
His call.
So, there's got to be a different reason, and it's the response of the people being
called.
See, we're all called to follow Jesus.
You might be a doctor, a lawyer, an accountant, a whatever, law enforcement, first responder,
being in the medical field, whatever it might be, wherever God may have called you.
And that may be the means that God's using to provide for you and your family, but He
still has called you to be a follower of Jesus Christ.
And He uses you in that place, in that situation, to be a light, to be His representative.
There are people that you will see this week in your workplace that unless they come and
visit this church, I will probably never meet them.
Just the way it works.
And so God, in His sovereignty, He moves and He has His people, but in those places we're
still to be followers of Jesus Christ.
My first and foremost goal is to understand that I'm following Jesus, but then God's going
to call some people as He did Matthew.
I want you to notice as we think about the seriousness of this call and the impact that
it should have upon each of us as we consider, yes, it's a simple call, follow me, but oh,
the seriousness of the call, that God is calling us as individuals to follow Him.
I believe that if we would corporately, beyond even just our local church, but if believers
across this globe would seriously grab hold to this truth, and we'd understand the seriousness
of following Jesus, it'd make a world of difference in our society.
We'd see a whole lot of people following Christ, seeking to exalt, and as I preached
last week, magnifying the Lord in our lives, and what a joy.
I know the simplicity and the seriousness of the call.
Number three this morning, I want you to see the surrender of Matthew.
Notice the surrender of Matthew.
It's summarized for us at the end of verse number nine.
We've used it as our title this morning, and He arose and followed Him.
I want you to think about the response and the surrender of Matthew here at the end of
verse number nine.
We find that Matthew, of course, would be used of the Lord to, under the inspiration
of the Holy Spirit of God, to pen the words of this particular book that we're looking
at this morning, and as we study the book of Matthew, I've already made note of the
miracles of the eighth chapter, and then that miracle that starts chapter number nine.
There was no doubt, there was a certain buzz, if you will, about Jesus.
There were things that were being spoken about, the miracles that had been performed, and
here this man, Matthew, he's sitting, the Bible tells us, at the receipt of custom,
and so he's in a very busy area.
There's lots of people that are passing by.
No doubt he's heard some things about Jesus.
No doubt he's heard about the miracles.
No doubt he's heard about those that came and the leper that was cleansed in verse number
one through four of chapter number eight, the centurion that comes and says, Jesus,
my servant is sick, and Jesus says, I'll come, and he says, no, no, no, I don't need you
to come because I know that I have authority as a centurion and I can speak, and those
that are under my authority, they do what I say.
They go where I tell them to go.
They follow my word, and you're God.
You could just speak it.
What did Jesus do?
He just spoke it.
The man is healed, and you go through and you see his power displayed, and you read
of the miracles, not only over disease, but over nature, as the eighth chapter records
for us when they were there in that great tempest, and Jesus was asleep, and he said,
peace, be still, and you read about his power over demons and all of these things that have
taken place, and no doubt Matthew's heard some of this stuff.
He's heard about what Jesus has been doing.
I mean, this was big news.
This was serious.
This was, if I could use it, this was the talk of the town, right?
And Jesus passes by, and he says, follow me, follow me.
Now Matthew has a decision, does he not?
Matthew has a decision.
Matthew can continue in the place where he is and he can say, you know what, I like my
life right now.
I like the monetary gain that I have from this position that I have.
I enjoy what it is that I'm doing, and thank you, but no thank you.
I mean, he could have responded that way.
But we read at the end of verse number nine when he simply heard the words, follow me.
He arose and followed him.
This response at the end of verse number nine, I believe, is both commendable and exemplary.
We commend Matthew for his obedience, the faith that he had to leave that which he was
doing.
Can you imagine the scene, if you will?
I mean, people that are passing by, and he's sitting there at the receipt of custom, and
Jesus says, follow me, and he just gets up and he follows him, leaving everything right
where it was.
It's commendable.
It's also exemplary.
There is nothing in my life or in your life that we hold on to too tight that we should
not be willing to surrender for God.
Amen?
Think about the song that we sang this morning.
The last, when I surveyed the wondrous cross, the last verse, it says this, love so amazing,
so divine.
The songwriter then said this, demands my soul, my life, my all.
I think the songwriter...
hit it right on the head.
Is not His love so amazing and so divine?
We sang about, hallelujah, what a Savior.
Man, and can it be,
we didn't sing that song this morning,
but you're familiar with it.
His amazing love that He'd love someone like us,
but God commendeth His love toward us
and that while we were yet sinners,
Christ died for us.
The songwriter says His love is so amazing,
it's so divine,
that it demands my soul, my life, my all.
There is nothing that we should cherish.
There is nothing that we should desire
more than Jesus.
We find that as we look at the response of Matthew,
I've noted that it's commendable
and that it's exemplary,
but his response of obedience
had a profound impact on his life.
I want you to notice the next few verses
as we finish up our study this morning
of this passage of Scripture.
I would say this,
the response of Matthew,
the surrender of Matthew,
it had a impact in his life
and it changed his profession.
His profession changed.
The Bible tells us that he was a publican,
he was a tax collector,
he's sitting at the receipt of custom,
but we know that he's no longer going to fulfill,
he's no longer going to be engaged
in that line of work.
He's now going to be an apostle.
It's amazing.
And we think about the specific call of Matthew.
Again, this morning, in a general sense,
God's calling you to follow Him,
but for some, God is calling
in a full-time capacity.
I remember, I knew that God called me
to full-time ministry well before
I ever got a call from Fellowship Baptist Church.
I knew that God had called me,
I had prepared in Bible college,
I was surrendered to what the Lord would want
and God had me working in churches,
He had me working in the corporate world
and I worked in the corporate world for years.
And I remember as I worked in the corporate world
wondering from time to time,
Lord, when?
You didn't forget about me.
And I remember God making it abundantly clear
that it was time.
And Holly and I, we were surrendered.
Lord, where do You want us?
I remember going over to my parents' house
and talking to them about coming to
a church in Oakton, Virginia
that was looking for a pastor.
I remember the conversation.
I remember them asking,
are you guys alright financially to do that?
Moms and dads are concerned about that.
As they should be.
We talked and we prayed.
We're praying for the will of God.
And I remember as some of you that were here then,
you know the events and how it all worked out.
It was amazing because for months
after we knew it was time,
there's really no opportunity.
The counsel that I received was
don't send a resume to anyone.
God knows where you are
and He knows where you need to be.
And so we're just waiting on God.
Asking God to open a door.
Now for some of you that have the same kind of personality
that I do, that's hard.
Because sometimes we think we can help God.
Right?
If you have the kind of personality I have,
you understand.
You can relate.
I was working in the corporate world.
Everything was about networking.
Or just trusting God.
But when God opened the door,
it was fast.
Seriously, it was fast.
And I remember going and telling my boss,
here's my resignation.
I'm leaving.
You're leaving?
What are you doing?
I'm going to go pastor a church.
You're crazy.
I'm not accepting your resignation.
Now I didn't know that an employer could say
they weren't going to accept.
I didn't have any kind of contract.
I'm not accepting your resignation.
You need to go talk to.
And they just kept sending me to the next boss
and the next boss and the next boss.
Because they didn't want to accept my resignation.
But God was changing my profession,
quote unquote, if I could use that term this morning.
And I remember sitting in the office
and the guy that was four or five levels above me
making all kinds of statements
and where you could be in so many years
and so on and so forth.
What was he trying to do?
He was trying to convince me to stay.
Look at what the possibilities are.
Look at what the opportunities are before you.
I mean, the future's bright for you.
Why would you do this?
Because God called me.
It was really kind of simple.
Because I knew that God called me.
And we see here for Matthew,
his profession changed.
But not only did his profession change,
and I think for the next two thoughts here
as we go through the remainder of this little text
of scripture this morning,
this will be the truth for each of us
whether we're speaking in a general sense
of following the Lord Jesus Christ
or in the specific sense of being an apostle
or a full-time ministry type of situation of Matthew here,
I want you to notice not only did his profession change,
but his perspective changed.
His perspective changed.
See, I want you to think about Matthew just for a moment.
I want you to think about how he viewed people.
In his line of work and what he did as a tax collector,
really, people were simply a means
by which he obtained his wealth.
Right?
That's just what it was.
He's just taxing people.
He's collecting the taxes.
He was levying the taxes.
And we find that he's now going
to have a change of perspective.
Why?
Because these people no longer are just the means
by which I'm going to receive my wealth.
These people are people that are in need of a savior.
People ask me often,
how do you like Northern Virginia?
Too many people there.
I get that all the time.
Pastors all through Virginia.
We had our pastors meeting here in July,
and people, oh, we got to go to Northern Virginia.
How do you handle the traffic in Northern Virginia?
And it's been exciting with all the construction, right?
I mean, it's just a blessing.
You know what I've told people over the years?
As frustrating as it is, each car represents people.
You know what ministry is about?
It's about people.
And if there are no people, there are no ministry.
Right?
And there are so many people.
And now the perspective of Matthew changes.
Not only does his perspective,
but I believe his priorities change.
His priorities change.
We find that he's going to host this large dinner party.
The Bible in Luke 5 in verse number 29,
you don't need to turn there,
but it makes it abundantly clear
that the house that they're going to have meat in,
according to verse number 10 of Matthew 9,
is Matthew's house.
And the Bible tells us of the feast,
of the dinner that they're going to have,
in Luke 5 verse 29, it calls it a great feast.
Matthew's going to host this dinner party, if you will,
at a cost to himself for the purpose
of bringing people into contact with the Savior.
That's a change of perspective.
That's a change of priority.
And as we're following the Lord Jesus Christ in our lives,
as we understand that he said,
follow me to each of us as his children,
we're going to have a difference in our perspective
and in our priorities as we're following Christ.
And we find that it tells us in verse number 10,
and it came to pass as Jesus sat at meat in the house,
behold, notice what it says,
many publicans and sinners came
and sat down with him and his disciples.
It seems clear to me that obviously as Matthew
in his profession, his occupation, he was a wealthy man.
He had the means of hosting this dinner party
and having them there and providing this great feast,
but now he's using the funds in order to bring people
into the presence of the Savior.
It's amazing at what his perspective and his priorities
and how it's changed.
And the Bible tells us that when the Pharisees saw it
in verse number 11, they said to his disciples,
why eateth your master with publicans and sinners?
I made the statement as we were reading through the text
at the introduction this morning,
that I'm thankful that Christ came to seek
and to save that which was lost.
Because we're all sinners.
I've said many times over the years,
there are but two groups of people upon the earth.
There are those that are saved by the blood of Jesus Christ
and those that are lost still in their sin.
I'm thankful to be saved.
I'm thankful to know the Lord Jesus Christ
as my personal Savior.
There are many people, however, that do not know Jesus.
In Matthew, in following the Lord Jesus Christ,
he has the perspective and the priority
of trying to bring people to the Savior.
And Jesus is there eating with them, these religious leaders, they are criticizing and
critiquing the behavior of Jesus.
And Jesus heard what they said and He responds to them.
He says, they that behold me not a physician, but they that are sick.
And then He says to them, but go ye and learn what that meaneth.
If you have heard the term about phylacteries and so on and so forth, you'd find that a
lot of these Pharisees, they would wear scripture on their person.
And they would have scripture upon them on their robes and what have you.
And it would seem obvious that they had this portion of scripture from the Old Testament
where it says, I will have mercy and not sacrifice.
And Jesus says, go and learn what that meaneth.
I will have mercy and not sacrifice.
And then Jesus says this, I am not come to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance.
I'm so thankful that Jesus loves sinners.
And if we love Jesus, we love what Jesus loves, amen?
And we ought to desire to reach people with the gospel of Jesus Christ.
And as He's called us to follow Him, He said to Peter, follow me and I will make you fishers
of men.
No longer, Peter, you're going to be catching fish.
You're going to be fishing for men.
Isn't that wonderful?
And we know Peter had that difficulty after the crucifixion and what have you, and he
said, I go a fishing.
But Jesus graciously, at the end of the book of John, Jesus graciously meets him on the
shore.
You know, He says to him, follow me, feed my sheep, feed my sheep, follow me.
Jesus is saying to us this morning, follow me.
If we're going to follow Him, it requires surrender.
Absolutely essential, it requires surrender.
Why would I surrender?
Why would I be willing to surrender these things and to follow the Lord Jesus Christ?
He's worthy of it.
He's commanded it.
The songwriters have said it so well.
We sing, actually, many times several of these songs, follow, follow, I would follow
Jesus.
We sing, anywhere, everywhere, I will follow on.
Everywhere He leads me, I will follow on.
We sing, where He leads me, I will follow.
We sing, I have decided to follow Jesus.
No turning back, no turning back.
I love the testimony of Caleb in the Old Testament.
He's a man that God says He wholly followed the Lord His God, wholly, entirely, completely.
When it was only he and Joshua followed the Lord.
The other ten, no, no, no, we can't.
The whole congregation is going to stone him.
No God is able, we're following.
Joshua and Caleb were the only two from that generation that made it into the land of promise.
And it says, if you study the life of Caleb, just think about the term that's used so repeatedly
that he wholly followed the Lord, that completeness of following the Lord.
I'll close with this passage, 2 Corinthians 5.
The Bible tells us, beginning in verse number 14 of 2 Corinthians 5, the love of Christ
constraineth us, because we thus judge that if one died for all, then we're all dead.
And verse 15 is a verse of Scripture that for many years now I have claimed, if you
will, as a life verse, if you've received any correspondence from me over the years,
I repeatedly sign with this verse of Scripture, 2 Corinthians 5 and verse number 15.
And that he died for all, that they which live should not henceforth live unto themselves,
but unto him which died for them and rose again.
I want to follow Jesus, be a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ.
I did it for many years, working in the corporate world.
I did it for many years without the specific call as a profession, if you will.
It's a blessing to follow Jesus.
You say, it's challenging, I understand, but isn't it wonderful to follow Him and to know
that He's with you?
He'll assist you.
He's there with you.
And you follow Jesus, and He will use you to bring honor and glory to Himself, and that's
what it's all about ultimately.
He'll use you to bring sinners into His presence.
Let me tell you about my Savior.
Hallelujah, what a Savior.
Let's pray.
Father, we love you.
We thank you for loving us.
We thank you for the call in Matthew's life, simple yet serious, challenged by the surrender
of Matthew.
He arose and followed.
God, I pray that you'd help each of us this morning to follow you.
Lord, many that are here this morning that you've called them to a particular profession,
but greater than that profession, you've called them to follow you in that profession, to
be a doctor that follows Jesus, to be a nurse that follows Jesus, to be an accountant, a
lawyer, a military first responder, whatever it is, to follow Jesus.
Perhaps this morning you've placed a more specific call in someone's heart and life.
A call such as what you placed upon Matthew's life in this text of Scripture.
Oh, God, I pray that if that would be the case, that they'd respond in obedience, surrender.
Lord, help each of us.
We so often sing the song, I surrender all.
I hope that as we sing that song, that we sing it in truth.
There's nothing that we hold on to.
We would not be willing to give up to follow you.
Use us, God, for your honor and for your glory.
Work in the time of invitation as only you can.
We'll thank you for it.
Would you stand with me?